h2. English

h3. What is the django-action?

**Django-action** is a small and simple application which would help you to implement actions similar to django.contrib.admin case for your custom tasks outside django admin. Also it provides custom form support if you would like to change some data for the queryset instances.

h3. Fast use

(sample with approval and custom forms you will find withing example app into the repository)

**+Fast model instances deletion (without form's approval)+:**

**+Model+**:

<pre><code>
from django.db import models
from apps.files.actions import force_delete_action
class File(models.Model):	
	title = models.CharField('Title', max_length=128)
	file = models.FileField(upload_to='media/files')
	actions = [force_delete_action,]
</code></pre>

**+django-action (apps.files.actions):+**

<pre><code>
def force_delete_action(request, qset, model, **kwargs):
    for q in qset:
        q.file.delete() #deletes file
        q.delete() #deletes instance
    return {'qset': qset}
force_delete_action.short_description = 'force delete files'
</code></pre>

**+Template+**:

<pre><code>
{% extends "base.html" %} {% load actiontags %}
{% block content %}
    {% if posts %}
    {# {% get_action_list for 'example.post' as actions %} #} {# works as well as listed below #}
    {% get_action_list for posts as actions %}
    {% if actions %}
        <form action='{% url url_act actions.action %}' method='post' id='id_action_posts'>
        {% csrf_token %}
        {% show_actions actions.object_list %}
    {% endif %}
        {% for p in posts %}
            <li>{% if actions.object_list %}
                <input name='items' value='{{ p.id }}' type='checkbox' class='void'>
                {% endif %}
                {{ p.title }}: {{ p.category }}
                <div class='content'>
                    {{ p.content }}
                <div class='author'>{{ p.author }} ({{ p.ip_addr }})</div>
                </div>
            </li>
        {% endfor %}
    {% if actions %}
        <input type='submit' value='submit'>
    </form>
    {% endif %}
    {% else %}
        <h3>It might be usefull to add some posts ;), don't you find it?</h3>
    {% endif %}
{% endblock %}
</code></pre>

h2. Russian

h3. Что такое django-action?

**Django-action** - небольшое приложение, которое повторяет возможности actions django.contrib.admin вне django админки.

h3. Использование

См. выше
